# Background #

Jx is not actually new technology.  DM Solutions Group originally developed it when working on Web Studio, a web-based interface included with MapGuide Open Source.  At that time, we looked for a toolkit that would provide us with some basic application components that we could glue together to build our vision of Web Studio but we couldn't find anything suitable.  So we set out to build our own set of reusable components that we could employ in Web Studio and use to simplify some of our other geospatial application development work.

We decided to build our toolkit on an existing javascript framework to reduce our development time and we chose Prototype and the excellent Scriptaculous effects library, the best of breed at the time.  As time passed, we used Jx successfully in several projects and then incorporated it as a fundamental piece of our Fusion technology.  For a couple of years, it did the job quite well and we ignored a number of minor irritations.  While Jx had an open source license (MIT), we did nothing to promote it or build a community around it so it remained relatively unknown outside our office.

Recently, we started to become dissatisfied with Jx for a number of reasons.  First, the world had changed around us and new toolkits (ExtJS, GWT, YUI) had emerged that made Jx look a little shabby.  Next, the state of the art in javascript frameworks had changed and Prototype/Scriptaculous had not really kept up.  New frameworks like jQuery and MooTools provided similar functionality in a much smaller code footprint and subjectively better looking effects.  Finally, we realized that the minor irritations that we constantly had to work around had reached the point where we needed to do something about it.

We spent quite a bit of time looking at these new toolkits and trying to decide if we should put more effort into Jx or just switch to adopt a new GUI toolkit like ExtJS.  In the end, we decided that it was worth the time and effort to rebuild Jx on a new javascript framework and clean up the things we wished we'd done differently the first time around.  I'll probably post a separate article on our rationale for keeping Jx at a later date.

Having decided we needed to update Jx, we spent some time evaluating different javascript frameworks.  In the end, we chose MooTools.  We also decided that we needed to make a bigger effort to engage the community in Jx development.  To this end, we will be moving the Jx code base to a Google Code project and setting up a full set of community development tools.  We will also be approaching the MooTools community to attract some new development talent.