#summary Working with Jx Flyout Buttons.

= Working with Jx Flyout Buttons =

Flyout buttons are a special type of button that display a content area when the button is clicked.  The content 'flys' out next to the button.  Clicking the button again, or clicking outside of the flyout or hitting the ESC key will close the flyout.  The content can be anything you wish, including static HTML, a reference to dynamically created HTML objects, or content loaded asychronously.  See [JxContentLoading Content Loading] for details on how content is loaded by components. 

A flyout button supports all the same options as a regular button, with two exceptions.  First, the toggle option is forced to true and cannot be changed.  Second, there is an additional content option as per the [JxContentLoading Content Loading] documentation. 

{{{
var flyout = new Jx.Flyout({
    image: 'images/bug.png',
    label: 'Options',
    tooltip: 'Debugging Options',
    content: 'optionsPane'
});
}}}

== Flyout Events ==

As the flyout button is a toggle button, but instead of up and down, it fires open and close events.

{{{
var flyout = new Jx.Flyout({
    image: 'images/bug.png',
    label: 'Options',
    tooltip: 'Debugging Options',
    content: 'optionsPane',
    onOpen: function() {
        alert('flyout was opened');
    },
    onClose: function() {
        alert('flyout was opened');
    }
});
}}}


When a flyout is first created, its content is not initially part of the DOM tree and so you cannot directly reference elements in the content by id.  You must wait until the first 'down' event before trying to reference elements in the content. 