#summary Release notes for 2.0 RC 1
#labels Featured

= 2.0 Open Issues =

issue 84 - (bug) visual glitch in menu items when using CSS sprites for images on those menu items
issue 32 - (task) JxLib cheat sheet
issue 86 - (task) review API docs before final release

We closed 38 known issues between Beta 6 and RC 1 - thanks to jonlb and KASI for providing fixes to some of the issues.

= Issues Closed in this Release =

  * issue 1 - panels with toolbars now display correctly in Opera
  * issue 13 - removed some event stops in menu and multi buttons so flyouts will close when a menu is clicked.
  * issue 14 - fixed an issue with disabled menu items in all IE browsers
  * issue 15 - fixed a null object error that occurred in IE 8.
  * issue 22 - modal dialogs on Opera now works for some reason :)
  * issue 23 - fix a problem with dragging splitters when one side is an iframe.
  * issue 36 - added a resize method to Jx.Dialog
  * issue 40 - add toElement to Jx.Addable so that the $() function will work on the domObj of various Jx objects directly.
  * issue 43 - fix dialog positioning in scrolled pages by fixing Jx.AutoPosition logic to use the scroll offsets of the page.
  * issue 44 - fix dialog positioning within other dialogs by fixing Jx.AutoPosition logic.
  * issue 45 - fixed modal blanket to be restricted to parent content area
  * issue 46 - editable combos are now editable again
  * issue 47 - toolbar separators made visible by changing a CSS class name
  * issue 48 - panel menu text now changes when expanded, collapsed.
  * issue 51 - fix a problem in IE 7 where menus collapsed.
  * issue 52 - you can now explicitly turn off scrolling in the tab bar of a tab box by passing the option scroll: false to the tab box constructor
  * issue 52 - fixed a problem where delays in loading dialog ajax content sometimes prevents dialogs from opening
  * issue 54 - fixed an issue with loading content in dialogs related to inheritance from panels
  * issue 56 - update Request to use MooTools 1.2 syntax of including URL in options.
  * issue 57 - fixed an infinite recursion problem in Jx.TreeItem contextMenu option
  * issue 58 - added barTooltip option to Jx.PanelSet and Jx.Splitter, added alphaLabel option to Jx.ColorPalette, added resizeTooltip option to Jx.Dialog,  added collapseTooltip, collapseLabel, expandTooltip, expandLabel, closeTooltip, closeLable, maximizeTooltip and maximizeLabel to Jx.Panel options
  * issue 60 - fixed an issue with IE 8 and the .jxDisabled CSS class
  * issue 61 - context menus adjusted to appear above dialogs
  * issue 62 - removed extraneous setTitle method from Jx.Dialog since setLabel from Jx.Panel does what setTitle used to do.
  * issue 63 - add onStart and onFinish optional methods to the Jx.Splitter that get called when the bar starts to drag and finishes dragging.
  * issue 64 - added alt and title attributes to all images to meet the w3c specs
  * issue 65 - added an openURL method to dialogs
  * issue 69 - added patches to make Jx common code work in Adobe AIR (Thanks jonlb)
  * issue 70 - added patches to make Jx dialog code work in Adobe AIR (Thanks jonlb)
  * issue 71 - added documentation to make it clear the Dialog inherits Panel
  * issue 72 - implement a Class.Mutator.Family for Jx that allows specifying a Family attribute in classes to identify the actual class to the $type operator which then causes $unlink to ignore Jx classes, solving a long standing infinite recursion problem using Options with Jx objects.  Thanks to user KASI for providing the solution.
  * issue 73 - update examples to use the latest google code prettifier
  * issue 74 - fixed a problem with tree items where the context menu would not appear.
  * issue 75 - fixed an exception in IE 8 when scrolling a page while a menu was open
  * issue 76 - move focus when changing between menus
  * issue 82 - fixed a problem with system context menus appearing over Jx context menus in Safari on tree items
  * issue 83 - fix display of multi buttons
  * issue 85 - fixed a problem with menu items in sub menus not receiving events due to a change implemented for issue 13.